Add mstest runner docs (#38459)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/testing/unit-testing-mstest-runner-exit-codes.md

---

> title: MSTest Runner Exit Codes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: MSTest runner exit codes
```

> title: MSTest Test Runner Exit Codes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: MSTest Runner Exit Codes
```

> description: Learn about MSTest Runner exit codes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn about the various MSTest runner exit codes and their meaning.
```

> description: Learn about MSTest Test Runner exit codes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Learn about MSTest Runner exit codes.
```

author: nohwnd
ms.author: jajares
ms.date: 11/28/2023

> ms.custom: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.topic: reference
```

---

> # Exit codes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# MSTest runner exit codes
```

> MSTest Runner uses known exit codes to communicate test failure or application error. Exit codes start at 0 and are non-negative:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MSTest runner uses known exit codes to communicate test failure or app errors. Exit codes start at `0` and are non-negative. Consider the following table that details the various exit codes and their corresponding reasons:
```

> | Exit&nbsp;Code | Reason |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Exit code | Reason |
```

|:-----|----------|
| [0](#0) | Success |
| [1](#1) | Generic failure. |
| [2](#2) | At least 1 test failed. |
| [3](#3) | Test session aborted. |
| [4](#4) | Invalid platform setup. |
| [5](#5) | Invalid command line. |
| [6](#6) | Feature not implemented. |
| [7](#7) | Test host process did not exit gracefully. |
| [8](#8) | Zero tests ran. |
| [9](#9) | Minimum expected tests policy violation. |
| [10](#10) | Test adapter test session failure. |

> To enable verbose logging in order to troubleshoot issue(s), see [troubleshooting](./unit-testing-mstest-runner-intro.md#troubleshooting).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable verbose logging in order to troubleshoot issues, see [troubleshooting](./unit-testing-mstest-runner-intro.md#troubleshooting).
```

<!-- Setting special name so we can simply link to the number from here, and from error message that is built into TA source code. -->

> ## <a name="0"></a>0 - Success

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## <a name="0"></a>
Success — 0
```

> ## <a name="0"></a>0 - Success

Author: we are using this to hopefully be able to link directly to the exit code from a shortlink looking like aka.ms/mtest-runner-exit-codes/1

> This exit code means success. All tests that were chosen for run has run, and there were no additional errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `0` exit code indicates success. All tests that were chosen to run have run to completion and there were no errors.
```

> ## <a name="1"></a>1 - Generic failure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## <a name="1"></a>
Generic failure — `1`
```

> This is a catch all for all unknown errors. Look for error in the output or log to get more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `1` exit code indicates unknown errors and acts as a _catch all_. To find additional error information and details look in the output.
```

> ## <a name="2"></a>2 - At least 1 test failed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## <a name="2"></a>
At least one test failed — `2`
```

> There was at least 1 failed test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An exit code of `2` is used to indicate that there was at least one test failure.
```

> ## <a name="3"></a>3 - Test session aborted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## <a name="3"></a>
Test session aborted — `3`
```

> When the test session is aborted, for instance through CTRL+C.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exit code `3` indicates that the test session was aborted. A session can be aborted using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd>, as an example.
```

> ## <a name="4"></a>4 - Invalid platform setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## <a name="4"></a>
Invalid platform setup — `4`
```

> The setup of used extensions are invalid and the tests session cannot run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exit code `4` indicates that the setup of used extensions is invalid and the tests session cannot run.
```

> ## <a name="5"></a>5 - Invalid command line

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## <a name="5"></a>
Invalid command line — `5`
```

> Command line arguments passed to the test application are invalid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exit code `5` indicates that the command line arguments passed to the test app are invalid.
```

> ## <a name="6"></a>6 - Feature not implemented

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## <a name="6"></a>
Feature not implemented — `6`
```

> Test session is using a not implemented feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exit code `6` indicates that the test session is using a non-implemented feature.
```

> ## <a name="7"></a>7 - Test host process did not exit gracefully

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## <a name="7"></a>
Test host process didn't exit gracefully — `7`
```

> When test session run under test controllers extension point it's possible that the test host won't close gracefully for instance due to a crash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exit code `7` indicates that a test session was unable to complete successfully, and likely crashed. It's possible that this was caused by a test session that was ran via a test controller's extension point.
```

> ## <a name="8"></a>8 - Zero tests ran

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## <a name="8"></a>
Zero tests ran — `8`
```

> Test session ran zero tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exit code `8` indicates that the test session ran zero tests.
```

> ## <a name="9"></a>9 - Minimum expected tests policy violation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## <a name="9"></a>
Minimum expected tests policy violation — `9`
```

> Policy for the minimum expected executed tests violated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exit code `9` indicates that the minimum execution policy for the executed tests was violated.
```

> ## <a name="10"></a>10 - Test adapter test session failure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## <a name="10"></a>
Test adapter test session failure — `10`
```

> The test adapter (i.e. Testing.Platform Test Framework, MSTest, NUnit, xUnit) failed to run tests for an infrastructure reason unrelated to the tests self (for instance failing to create a fixture needed by tests).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exit code `10` indicates that the test adapter, Testing.Platform Test Framework, MSTest, NUnit, or xUnit, failed to run tests for an infrastructure reason unrelated to the test's self. An example is failing to create a fixture needed by tests.
```
